II FM
FM is the short for frequency modulation, which is the modulation technique that varies the instantaneous frequency of the carrier wave based on the modulating wave which carries the information. Mathematically, the frequency deviation, or the difference between the frequency of the carrier and its center frequency is changed in a way proportional to the modulating signal. 
As a primitive example, suppose we have a sinusoidal signal whose frequency can be viewed as the integral over time of its instantaneous frequency.  The instantaneous frequency can further be decomposed into the sum of center frequency and frequency deviation from the center. In frequency modulation, this deviation is realized as a number proportional to the amplitude of the modulating signal.
Modulation
FM signals can be generated using either direct or indirect frequency modulation: Direct FM modulation can be achieved by directly feeding the message into the input of a voltage-controlled oscillator. For indirect FM modulation, the message signal is integrated to generate a phase-modulated signal. This is used to modulate a crystal-controlled oscillator, and the result is passed through a frequency multiplier to produce an FM signal. In this modulation, narrowband FM is generated leading to wideband FM later and hence the modulation is known as indirect FM modulation.[9]
Demodulation
Many FM detector circuits exist. A common method for recovering the information signal is through a Foster-Seeley discriminator or ratio detector. A phase-locked loop can be used as an FM demodulator. Slope detection demodulates an FM signal by using a tuned circuit which has its resonant frequency slightly offset from the carrier. As the frequency rises and falls the tuned circuit provides changing amplitude of response, converting FM to AM. AM receivers may detect some FM transmissions by this means, although it does not provide an efficient means of detection for FM broadcasts.
Application
Perhaps the most important and well known application of frequency modulation is in the field of radio broadcasting. The American engineer Edwin Armstrong invented the first wideband frequency modulation radio, which, as the name suggests, requires a wider baseband compared to amplitude modulation and is less vulnerable to interference and noise. Besides, frequency modulation is also more robust against the signal-amplitude-fading phenomenon, which made FM the modulation standard for high-frequency high-fidelity radio transmission. 
III Microwave Oven
A microwave oven is an electric oven that heats and cooks food by exposing it to electromagnetic radiation in the microwave frequency range. This induces polar molecules in the food to rotate and produce thermal energy in a process known as dielectric heating. Microwave ovens heat foods quickly and efficiently because excitation is fairly uniform in the outer 25–38 mm (1–1.5 inches) of a homogeneous, high water content food item; food is more evenly heated throughout than generally occurs in other cooking techniques.
We first explain the exact meaning of the microwave frequency range. Microwave is a particular form of electromagnetic radiation with wavelength roughly ranging from 1m to 1cm, corresponding to frequencies of 300 MHz to 300 GHz. The below table shows a general spectrum of electromagnetic waves:
Electromagnetic spectrum

Name	Wavelength	Frequency (Hz)
Photon energy (eV)

Gamma ray
< 0.02 nm	> 15 EHz
> 62.1 keV

X-ray
0.01 nm – 10 nm	30 EHz – 30 PHz
124 keV – 124 eV	
Ultraviolet
10 nm – 400 nm	30 PHz – 750 THz	124 eV – 3 eV	
Visible light
390 nm – 750 nm	770 THz – 400 THz	3.2 eV – 1.7 eV	
Infrared
750 nm – 1 mm	400 THz – 300 GHz	1.7 eV – 1.24 meV

Microwave	1 mm – 1 m	300 GHz – 300 MHz	1.24 meV – 1.24 µeV

Radio
1 mm – 100 km	300 GHz – 3 kHz
1.24 µeV – 12.4 feV


The microwave used in a microwave oven resides in one of the ISM (industrial, scientific and medical) ranges so that they don’t interfere with other vital radio uses. For consumer microwave ovens the frequency used is usually at 2.45 GHz, while industrial and larger ones use frequency at 915 MHz.
Dielectric heating is the phenomenon that happens when molecules such as water, fat and other substance in food rotate and hit each other, disperse energies. The reason for the rotation is because all such molecules are electric dipoles, with one side carrying positive electric charge and the other side carrying negative charge. When placed under an external electric field, the molecule tries to align itself with the direction of the field and under the alternating electric fields of microwave, molecules will rotate and hence hit each other to disperse energy. This energy then raises the temperature of the food.
Compared to liquid water, microwave heating is less efficient on fats and sugars (which have a smaller molecular dipole moment). To be more precise, sugars and triglycerides (fats and oils) absorb microwaves due to the dipole moments of their hydroxyl groups or ester groups. However, due to the lower specific heat capacity of fats and oils and their higher vaporization temperature, they often attain much higher temperatures inside microwave ovens. This can induce temperatures in oil or very fatty foods like bacon far above the boiling point of water, and high enough to induce some browning reactions. Foods high in water content and with little oil rarely exceed the boiling temperature of water.
IV RFID
Radio-frequency identification (RFID) uses electromagnetic fields to automatically identify and track tags attached to objects. The tags contain electronically-stored information. Passive tags collect energy from a nearby RFID reader's interrogating radio waves while active tags have a local power source (such as a battery) and may operate hundreds of meters from the RFID reader. Unlike a barcode, the tag need not be within the line of sight of the reader, so it may be embedded in the tracked object. RFID is one method of automatic identification and data capture (AIDC). 
We know proceed by looking at each component for an RFID.
Tags
A radio-frequency identification system uses tags, or labels attached to the objects to be identified. Two-way radio transmitter-receivers called readers send a signal to the tag and read its response 
RFID tags can be passive, active or battery-assisted passive. An active tag has an on-board battery and periodically transmits its ID signal. A battery-assisted passive (BAP) has a small battery on board and is activated when in the presence of an RFID reader. A passive tag is cheaper and smaller because it has no battery; instead, the tag uses the radio energy transmitted by the reader. However, to operate a passive tag, it must be illuminated with a power level roughly a thousand times stronger than for signal transmission. That makes a difference in interference and in exposure to radiation.
Tags may either be read-only, having a factory-assigned serial number that is used as a key into a database, or may be read/write, where object-specific data can be written into the tag by the system user. Field programmable tags may be written-once, read-multiple; "blank" tags may be written with an electronic product code by the user.
RFID tags contain at least three parts: an integrated circuit that stores and processes information and that modulates and demodulates radio-frequency(RF) signals; a means of collecting DC power from the incident reader signal; and an antenna for receiving and transmitting the signal. The tag information is stored in a non-volatile memory. The RFID tag includes either fixed or programmable logic for processing the transmission and sensor data, respectively.
An RFID reader transmits an encoded radio signal to interrogate the tag. The RFID tag receives the message and then responds with its identification and other information. This may be only a unique tag serial number, or may be product-related information such as a stock number, lot or batch number, production date, or other specific information. Since tags have individual serial numbers, the RFID system design can discriminate among several tags that might be within the range of the RFID reader and read them simultaneously.
Readers
RFID systems can be classified by the type of tag and reader. A Passive Reader Active Tag (PRAT) system has a passive reader which only receives radio signals from active tags (battery operated, transmit only). An Active Reader Passive Tag (ARPT) system has an active reader, which transmits interrogator signals and also receives authentication replies from passive tags. An Active Reader Active Tag (ARAT) system uses active tags awoken with an interrogator signal from the active reader. A variation of this system could also use a Battery-Assisted Passive (BAP) tag which acts like a passive tag but has a small battery to power the tag's return reporting signal. Fixed readers are set up to create a specific interrogation zone which can be tightly controlled. This allows a highly defined reading area for when tags go in and out of the interrogation zone. Mobile readers may be hand-held or mounted on carts or vehicles.
Frequencies
RFID’s are in general operating on different frequency bands depending on their applications. For example, animal identification is operating within the band of 120-150 kHz and majority of smart cards are operating under the ISM band worldwide regulations within the band of 13.56 MHz.
V Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and Hotspot
Wi-Fi is technology for radio wireless local area networking of devices under the IEEE 802.11 standards. Different versions of Wi-Fi exist with different working range, radio bands and speeds. In general, 2.4 GHz and 5.8 gHz are commonly used and subdivided into multiple channels that can be time-shared by multiple networks. 
Wi-Fi technology may be used to provide Internet access to devices that are within the range of a wireless network that is connected to the Internet. The coverage of one or more interconnected access points (hotspots) can extend from an area as small as a few rooms to as large as many square kilometers. Coverage in the larger area may require a group of access points with overlapping coverage.  A hotspot is a physical location where people can obtain Internet access via a wireless local area network using a router connected to an internet service provider.
Wi-Fi provides service in private homes, businesses, as well as in public spaces at Wi-Fi hotspots set up either free-of-charge or commercially, often using a captive portal webpage for access. Organizations and businesses, such as airports, hotels, and restaurants, often provide free-use hotspots to attract customers. Enthusiasts or authorities who wish to provide services or even to promote business in selected areas sometimes provide free Wi-Fi access.
Routers that incorporate a digital subscriber line modem or a cable modem and a Wi-Fi access point, often set up in homes and other buildings, provide Internet access and internetworking to all devices connected to them, wirelessly or via cable.
Similarly, battery-powered routers may include a cellular Internet radio modem and Wi-Fi access point. When subscribed to a cellular data carrier, they allow nearby Wi-Fi stations to access the Internet over 2G, 3G, or 4G networks using the tethering technique. Many smartphones have a built-in capability of this sort, including those based on Android, BlackBerry, Bada, iOS (iPhone), Windows Phone and Symbian, though carriers often disable the feature, or charge a separate fee to enable it, especially for customers with unlimited data plans. "Internet packs" provide standalone facilities of this type as well, without use of a smartphone; examples include the MiFi- and WiBro-branded devices. Some laptops that have a cellular modem card can also act as mobile Internet Wi-Fi access points.
Wi-Fi works with a wireless access point connecting a group of wireless devices to an adjacent wired LAN. Data are relayed between connected wireless devices in additional to the wired device and enable communications of wireless devices.
VI Radar
Radar is a detection system that uses radio waves to determine the range, angle, or velocity of objects. It can be used to detect aircraft, ships, spacecraft, guided missiles, motor vehicles, weather formations, and terrain. A radar system consists of a transmitter producing electromagnetic waves in the radio or microwaves domain, a transmitting antenna, a receiving antenna (often the same antenna is used for transmitting and receiving) and a receiver and processor to determine properties of the object(s). Radio waves (pulsed or continuous) from the transmitter reflect off the object and return to the receiver, giving information about the object's location and speed.
We will start by explaining briefly the working principles of radars. Radar works by first transmitting radio waves in a predetermined direction. The radio waves are called radar signals. When radar signals meet the target object, three cases can happen: the signal can get reflected, or scattered, or absorbed and penetrating into the target. Of all the above possibilities, the reflected radar signals are the desirable ones and enable people to perform useful analysis on the information of the target object, such as size, material, speed, etc. Recall that from Doppler’s effect, we can easily see frequency shifts and recover the relative velocities between the transmitter and the target object.
Despite transmitter, a radar also has a receiver which is usually located at the same position with the transmitter but could also be located somewhere else. We remark that the received signals are often weak, which requires some additional work to be able to extract useful information out of it. One way is to implement a circuit amplifier in radars to amplify the received signal, or to use some sophisticated signal processing techniques to do that. 
Besides the above description of reflection, scattering and Doppler effect, radar also utilizes polarization for better performance purpose. In all electromagnetic radiation, the electric field is perpendicular to the direction of propagation, and the electric field direction is the polarization of the wave. For a transmitted radar signal, the polarization can be controlled to yield different effects. Radars use horizontal, vertical, linear, and circular polarization to detect different types of reflections. For example, circular polarization is used to minimize the interference caused by rain. Linear polarization returns usually indicate metal surfaces. Random polarization returns usually indicate a fractal surface, such as rocks or soil, and are used by navigation radars.
Radars can be subject to various factors that limit their performances. Such factors include noise, interference, jamming, clutter, etc. It is thus crucial for improving radar performance in designing radars to take those factors into consideration.
VII Navigation
The main application of microwaves in navigation lies in the field of satellite navigation. 
 	Satellite navigation system is a system that uses satellites to provide autonomous geo-spatial positioning. It allows small electronic receivers to determine their location (longitude, latitude, and altitude/elevation) to high precision (within a few meters) using time signals transmitted along a line of sight by radio from satellites. The system can be used for providing position, navigation or for tracking the position of something fitted with a receiver (satellite tracking). The signals also allow the electronic receiver to calculate the current local time to high precision, which allows time synchronization. Satnav systems operate independently of any telephonic or internet reception, though these technologies can enhance the usefulness of the positioning information generated.
A satellite navigation system with global coverage may be termed a global navigation satellite system (GNSS). As of October 2018, the United States' Global Positioning System (GPS) and Russia's GLONASS are fully operational GNSSs, with China's BeiDou Navigation Satellite System (BDS) and the European Union's Galileo scheduled to be fully operational by 2020.[1][2] India, France and Japan are in the process of developing regional navigation and augmentation systems as well.
The first satellite navigation system was  deployed by the US military in the 1960s based on the Doppler effect: the satellites travelled on well-known paths and broadcast their signals on a well-known radio frequency. The received frequency will differ slightly from the broadcast frequency because of the movement of the satellite with respect to the receiver. By monitoring this frequency shift over a short time interval, the receiver can determine its location to one side or the other of the satellite, and several such measurements combined with a precise knowledge of the satellite's orbit can fix a particular position. Variations in the gravity field and radar refraction can introduce various types of measuring errors. 
To minimize the errors, modern systems are more direct by broadcasting a signal that contains orbital data and the precise time the signal was transmitted. The orbital ephemeris is transmitted in a data message that is superimposed on a code that serves as a timing reference. The satellite uses an atomic clock to maintain synchronization of all the satellites in the constellation. The receiver compares the time of broadcast encoded in the transmission of three (at sea level) or four different satellites, thereby measuring the time-of-flight to each satellite. Several such measurements can be made at the same time to different satellites, allowing a continual fix to be generated in real time using an adapted version of trilateration.
Each distance measurement, regardless of the system being used, places the receiver on a spherical shell at the measured distance from the broadcaster. By taking several such measurements and then looking for a point where they meet, a fix is generated. However, in the case of fast-moving receivers, the position of the signal moves as signals are received from several satellites. In addition, the radio signals slow slightly as they pass through the ionosphere, and this slowing varies with the receiver's angle to the satellite, because that changes the distance through the ionosphere. The basic computation thus attempts to find the shortest directed line tangent to four oblate spherical shells centred on four satellites. Satellite navigation receivers reduce errors by using combinations of signals from multiple satellites and multiple correlators, and then using techniques such as Kalman filtering to combine the noisy, partial, and constantly changing data into a single estimate for position, time, and velocity.


VIII Satellite TV
Satellite television is a service that delivers television programming to viewers by relaying it from a communications satellite orbiting the Earth directly to the viewer's location. The signals are received via an outdoor parabolic antenna commonly referred to as a satellite dish and a low-noise block downconverter.
A satellite receiver then decodes the desired TV program for viewing on a television set. Receivers can be external set-top boxes, or a built-in television tuner. Satellite television provides a wide range of channels and services. It is usually the only television available in many remote geographic areas without terrestrial television or cable television service.
Modern systems signals are relayed from a communications satellite on the Ku band frequencies (12–18 GHz) requiring only a small dish less than a meter in diameter. The first satellite TV systems were an obsolete type now known as television receive-only. These systems received weaker analog signals transmitted in the C-band (4–8 GHz) from FSS type satellites, requiring the use of large 2–3-meter dishes. Consequently, these systems were nicknamed "big dish" systems, and were more expensive and less popular. 
Early systems used analog signals, but modern ones use digital signals which allow transmission of the modern television standard high-definition television, due to the significantly improved spectral efficiency of digital broadcasting.
	There are five major components in a satellite system: the programming source, the broadcast center, the satellite, the satellite dish, and the receiver. "Direct broadcast" satellites used for transmission of satellite television signals are generally in geostationary orbit 37,000 km (23,000 mi) above the earth's equator.
 Satellite television, like other communications relayed by satellite, starts with a transmitting antenna located at an uplink facility. Uplink facilities transmit the signal to the satellite over a narrow beam of microwaves, typically in the C-band frequency range due to its resistance to rain fade. The uplink dish is pointed toward a specific satellite and the uplinked signals are transmitted within a specific frequency range, so as to be received by one of the transponders tuned to that frequency range aboard that satellite. 
The downlinked satellite signal, weaker after traveling the great distance (see inverse-square law), is collected by using a rooftop parabolic receiving dish ("satellite dish"), which reflects the weak signal to the dish's focal point. Mounted on brackets at the dish's focal point is a feedhorn which passes the signals through a waveguide to a device called a low-noise block converter (LNB) or low noise converter (LNC) attached to the horn. The LNB amplifies the weak signals, filters the block of frequencies in which the satellite television signals are transmitted, and converts the block of frequencies to a lower frequency range in the L-band range. Finally the signal is passed through a coaxial cable into the residence to the satellite television receiver, a set-top box next to the television.
IX Radio Astronomy
	Radio astronomy is a subfield of astronomy that studies celestial objects at radio frequencies. Microwaves emitted by astronomical radio sources; planets, stars, galaxies, and nebulas are studied in radio astronomy with large dish antennas called radio telescopes. In addition to receiving naturally occurring microwave radiation, radio telescopes have been used in active radar experiments to bounce microwaves off planets in the solar system, to determine the distance to the Moon or map the invisible surface of Venus through cloud cover.
Radio astronomers use different techniques to observe objects in the radio spectrum. Instruments may simply be pointed at an energetic radio source to analyze its emission. To "image" a region of the sky in more detail, multiple overlapping scans can be recorded and pieced together in a mosaic image. The type of instrument used depends on the strength of the signal and the amount of detail needed.
Observations from the Earth's surface are limited to wavelengths that can pass through the atmosphere. At low frequencies, or long wavelengths, transmission is limited by the ionosphere, which reflects waves with frequencies less than its characteristic plasma frequency. Water vapor interferes with radio astronomy at higher frequencies, which has led to building radio observatories that conduct observations at millimeter wavelengths at very high and dry sites, in order to minimize the water vapor content in the line of sight. Finally, transmitting devices on earth may cause radio-frequency interference. Because of this, many radio observatories are built at remote places.
Radio telescopes may need to be extremely large in order to receive signals with high signal-to-noise ratio. Also since angular resolution is a function of the diameter of the "objective" in proportion to the wavelength of the electromagnetic radiation being observed, radio telescopes have to be much larger in comparison to their optical counterparts. For example, a 1-meter diameter optical telescope is two million times bigger than the wavelength of light observed giving it a resolution of roughly 0.3 arc seconds, whereas a radio telescope "dish" many times that size may, depending on the wavelength observed, only be able to resolve an object the size of the full moon (30 minutes of arc).
The difficulty in achieving high resolutions with single radio telescopes led to radio interferometry, developed by British radio astronomer Martin Ryle and Australian engineer, radio-physicist, and radio astronomer Joseph Lade Pawsey and Ruby Payne-Scott in 1946. Modern Radio interferometers consist of widely separated radio telescopes observing the same object that are connected together using coaxial cable, waveguide, optical fiber, or other type of transmission line. This not only increases the total signal collected, it can also be used in a process called Aperture synthesis to vastly increase resolution. This technique works by superposing the signal waves from the different telescopes on the principle that waves that coincide with the same phase will add to each other while two waves that have opposite phases will cancel each other out. This creates a combined telescope that is the size of the antennas furthest apart in the array. 
X Active Denial System
The Active Denial System (ADS) is a non-lethal, directed-energy weapon developed by the U.S. military, designed for area denial, perimeter security and crowd control. Informally, the weapon is also called the heat ray since it works by heating the surface of targets, such as the skin of targeted human subjects.
The ADS works by firing a high-powered beam of 95 GHz radio waves at a target, which corresponds to a wavelength of 3.2 mm. The ADS millimeter wave energy works on a similar principle as a microwave oven, in which situation the water and fat molecules in the skin are exited under the alternating electric fields and start rotating as well as heating each other to disperse energy and raise the temperature up. One significant difference is that a microwave oven uses the much lower frequency (and longer wavelength) of 2.45 GHz. The short millimeter waves used in ADS only penetrate the top layers of skin with most of the energy being absorbed within 0.4 mm, whereas microwaves will penetrate into human tissue about 17 mm. 
Two Active Denial Systems were developed under a Defense Department "Advanced Concept Technology Demonstration" Program (now known as Joint Concept Technology Demonstration Program) from 2002 to 2007. Unlike typical weapons development programs in the Defense Department, ACTDs/JCTDs are not focused on optimizing the technology; rather they are focused on rapidly assembling the technology in a configuration suitable for user evaluation.
There have been discussions and controversies as to whether it is appropriate to develop and utilize such weapons. It is clear however that no matter what forms of non-lethal microwave-based weapon are to be put into use, a substantial amount of tests need to be done to address the concerns of impacts of such weapons on human health.



